README.md, before:

# GEMX

Gyrokinetic simulation of the tokamak edge including the scrape-off layer

Please add any useful notes to this file. Place it anywhere and we can clean up later.

GEMX.pdf is our equations or user manual.  Consider placing any notes on implementations in this overleaf document: https://www.overleaf.com/project/64456a5749a720661d4d1f0a

Versions:

Sept 13, 2023 
Have GK Poisson working and particle tracers in equilibrium B working.  Zhichen is working getting Alfven waves.  Field solve needs to be parallelized and optimized. Qiheng and Scott are cleaning up wrappers, adding diagnostic routines and .ipynb diagnostic scripts.

## Setup and Running

On perlmutter:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:UCBoulder/GEMX.git
cd src
source env.sh
make
cd ../bin
sbatch <job_script_name>
```

All files necessary to run are copied to the ```bin``` folder. However this is done everytime ```make``` is called so changes to the input file ```gemx.in``` or NERSC job scripts may get overwritten
if compiling code updates.

It is recommended to make a new run directory and copy files there from ```bin```. ${\color{red}\textbf{\textrm{(This should be automated with a script.)}}}$

To clean up run output, use the reset script in the run directory: ```./reset.sh```

Different job scripts will be moved depending on make flags. They currently have different names for clarity.

The code can be run using cpu or gpu. As well as in debug mode as described below.

### Running on CPU

To run serially on cpu use ```make CPU=1```. It's possible to run ```OpenACC``` parallel on CPU with the ```-acc=multicore``` flag rather than ```-acc=host``` but this might not work depending on the CPUs and probably using ```OpenMP``` would be more prudent on CPU.

### Debugging

Create a debug build by calling ```make DEBUG=1```. This will lower the optimization and add check flags.

Also the debug job script will dump core files as well if needed on perlmutter. The core dump files can be read with ```gdb gemx <core_file>```.

Note, bounds checks are disable by OpenACC. A cpu run would be required.

### Running Locally

The makefile is setup to run locally and on perlmutter without changing any settings. The only difference is the ```env.sh``` doesn't need to be sourced.

Instead one should update their local environment in ```~/.bashrc``` manually.

But the nvidia hpc compilers and PETSc need to be installed locally. ${\color{red}\textbf{\textrm{(Add instructions.)}}}$

## Analysing Runs

Scripts to read run output are also copied to the ```bin``` folder. Some are MATLAB scripts some are Jupyter notebook files. This should all be consolidated at some point and described.

## Cheat Sheet

tar cvf * - When taring up GEMX, do not include top directory, just the files and any subdirectories.

tar xvf file.tar

NERSC user names:
cqh2021 - Qiheng
u10198 - Yang
nonohing - Zhichen
jycheng - Junyi
stirkas - Stefan

give -u <username> file.tar
take -u <username> -a

source env.sh

sbatch submit.cmd
sacct
sqs
scancel $jobid
scancel -u $USER

Commit message:

Update readme and reset script permissions

README.md, after:

# GEMX

Gyrokinetic simulation of the tokamak edge including the scrape-off layer

Please add any useful notes to this file. Place it anywhere and we can clean up later.

GEMX.pdf is our equations or user manual.  Consider placing any notes on implementations in this overleaf document: https://www.overleaf.com/project/64456a5749a720661d4d1f0a

Versions:

Sept 13, 2023 
Have GK Poisson working and particle tracers in equilibrium B working.  Zhichen is working getting Alfven waves.  Field solve needs to be parallelized and optimized. Qiheng and Scott are cleaning up wrappers, adding diagnostic routines and .ipynb diagnostic scripts.

## Setup and Running

On perlmutter:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:UCBoulder/GEMX.git
cd src
source env.sh
make
cd ../bin
sbatch <job_script_name>
```

All files necessary to run are copied to the ```bin``` folder. However this is done everytime ```make``` is called so changes to the input file ```gemx.in``` or NERSC job scripts may get overwritten
if compiling code updates.

A temporary fix is to make a new run directory and copy files there from ```bin```. Then update the job script to call ```../bin/gemx``` rather than ```./gemx```. Then you can have specific run files which call the latest version of the code.
${\color{red}\textbf{\textrm{(This should be automated with a script.)}}}$

To clean up run output, use the reset script in the run directory: ```./reset.sh```

Different job scripts will be moved depending on make flags. They currently have different names for clarity.

The code can be run using cpu or gpu. As well as in debug mode as described below.

### Running on CPU

To run serially on cpu use ```make CPU=1```. It's possible to run ```OpenACC``` parallel on CPU with the ```-acc=multicore``` flag rather than ```-acc=host``` but this might not work depending on the CPUs and probably using ```OpenMP``` would be more prudent on CPU.

### Debugging

Create a debug build by calling ```make DEBUG=1```. This will lower the optimization and add check flags.

Also the debug job script will dump core files as well if needed on perlmutter. The core dump files can be read with ```gdb gemx <core_file>```.

Note, bounds checks are disable by OpenACC. A cpu run would be required.

### Running Locally

The makefile is setup to run locally and on perlmutter without changing any settings. The only difference is the ```env.sh``` doesn't need to be sourced.

Instead one should update their local environment in ```~/.bashrc``` manually.

But the nvidia hpc compilers and PETSc need to be installed locally. ${\color{red}\textbf{\textrm{(Add instructions.)}}}$

## Analysing Runs

Scripts to read run output are also copied to the ```bin``` folder. Some are MATLAB scripts some are Jupyter notebook files. This should all be consolidated at some point and described.

## Cheat Sheet

tar cvf * - When taring up GEMX, do not include top directory, just the files and any subdirectories.

tar xvf file.tar

NERSC user names:
cqh2021 - Qiheng
u10198 - Yang
nonohing - Zhichen
jycheng - Junyi
stirkas - Stefan

give -u <username> file.tar
take -u <username> -a

source env.sh

sbatch submit.cmd
sacct
sqs
scancel $jobid
scancel -u $USER
